# Final-Project
for this project I wanted to look at a dataset from IMDB, which is a movie rating company, it has many variables in the dataset like the rating, votes, metascore, revenue, etc. I wanted to see if all the variables in this dataset would help predict the outcome of the rating. My hypothesis for the data is that all the variables in the model will have an impact for the rating. For the null, I predicted that none of the variables will have any correlation when it comes to predicting raitng.
# Cleaning
While cleaning the data my main goal was to clean up null values and for the actors and directors category, turn that into numerical values to allow me to use linear regression and KNN. I also narrowed it down to the top 10 genres and from there, grouped the data based off the first genre that was listed for the movie. The main listed actors were also grouped numerically, and they are pretty much unique to each entry. Along with this I wanted to get the mean of the metascore and standardize that for the data as well. Lastly I cleaned up null values in certain spots. The data was pretty clean to begin with, so it was more converting it to a numerical value to be used. I also dropped the movie title and description, as those wouldn't be needed for the final data.
# Machine Learning 
For the data I chose to use multilinear regression and KNN. Based on my hypothesis I wanted to look at all the variables and how they impacted the rating, so I included them in the model. Based off the results the R^2 value was not the greatest and it showed that these variables alone didn't have the greatest impact on ratin. It wasn't an awful R^2 score but definetly showed that there are many other variables that come into the movie rating and on top of that, there are some variables in the model that could have been removed, but to honor my hypothesis I wanted to use all of them. For KNN, I needed to bin the data. This takes the contiunous data and puts it into certain groups based on the rating in order to use KNN as the data is continous and you wouldn't be able to use it to begin with. There are many graphs that show the acrtaul vs predicted for the linear regression and the how important each variable is for each model.
# Overall Result
The overall result of my main hypothesis wasn't the greatest, but it did show that there are a lot more factors that come into play when it comes to the rating of a movie.
